The Joe Rogan experience.
Sure. All your kids just cut loose on YouTube.
Do no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Luckily one of my kids,
all she likes to watch on YouTube is like, there's a girl named sniper Wolf. Hm.
Who's very funny. And she does like these reaction videos to stuff,
but it's very grated and she loves watching her and you know,
know there's, you know,
but I keep an eye on what they're doing and I don't allow them to just start
going crazy. Yeah. Cause it's just, you just, you know,
you never know. I mean, one day you just stumble upon an ISIS behead video.
Yeah. Now you have, you know,
your kids waking you up in the middle of the night, crying and screaming.
Cuz they can get this image outta their head. It's terrifying.
It is to be on the other side of it too. Cause when you're young,
all you wanna do is throw off the chains. Oh yeah.
And then all of a sudden you're like in the position of putting the chains on.
Yeah. You gotta it's like how much freedom do you give them?
Like how much do you talk to them about stuff?
How much do you let them figure this stuff out on their own?
<affirmative> you know, it's uh,
it's tricky and it's a weird world because it didn't exist previous.
Like it's not like we're dealing with something that we went through when we
were children. Mm-hmm <affirmative> there was no Google when we were children,
there was no, you know, live leak. You ever go on live leak and,
I know about it, but yeah. Horrible videos.
You can watch a lot of car accidents and animal attacks and just wild. Yeah.
That's not, you know.
Although I have been on that. Yeah. I have, I have stumbled into that.
But that wasn't, that didn't exist before, when I was a kid.
If you wanted to watch something up, you had a plan for it.
Like we wanted to watch faces of death. Somebody had to get the video. Someone,
one of our friends had to watch the door, you know?
So like we were in the basement. One of the friends wash the door,
make sure the parents didn't come down and then we put it on the VCR and we,
we were ready. Like if someone came down, you'd pop that tape out and hide it.
These kids today, all they have to do is just have a phone. You know?
And a lot of times kids are 11 and 12.
They have phones and 12 year olds with a phone. I mean,
they're gonna start Googling people, people getting killed.
They're gonna see the most crazy. Have you seen this? Your friend are gonna say,
have you seen that? And then you're gonna look on your phone.
There's there's no way to stop it. There's no way to stop it.
Kids have wild work arounds for, for like little,
little restrictions, my sneaky little kid. You know what she did.
She screened recorded. Um, my wife,
when my wife went and put in a password <laugh> for her
screen time. Yes. Nice move. Very nice move.
She handed her phone over to my wife.
My wife goes in and puts a password in for her screen time.
So she can only get an hour's worth of screen time a day.
And then my wife checks and she's like, how you have four hours of screen time,
like what's going on here? So she,
and then she figured out that the really the little monster. Yeah, I got did.
You guys have public access, man? When you were growing up smart.
My public access TV, I used to see, I remember that's my first.
Exposure to faces of death was after 10 o'clock.
They could show whatever the they wanted for whatever reason,
really PO not blatant porn, but porn really.
I saw that's when the bud der Dwyer video of him shooting himself in the face.
You saw that on TV to the 21 gun salute when I was going to bed and I was when I
was like 10 years old, what? Yeah. Huh? No way. Wow. And then this guy ended up,
I was talking with some of my friends when I was back at home. In my reunion,
this guy was, we all knew about him when we were like 12, 13 years old,
had a show painted up like an insane clown posse type character and would
have like blood girl, girls, vaginas lips, all sort.
It's a wild. Really wild.
And it was just like the government was putting it on technically cuz it public
access. So in.
Public access there's no restrictions like there are.
That's what I was asking. I don't did not.
You guys didn't have that's like what Wayne's world was that's my only thing I
knew growing up was like Wayne's world on the SNL was a public access show,
but then we actually had public access and that's where wild was happen after 10
o'clock. I had a friend of.
Mine who read a public access show, my friend, uh, Larry Raucci,
who was a standup comic in, uh, I think it was Larry's show,
but he was a standup comic in Boston. We all did a public access show.
When we were like struggling comedians, we all went on. You did it too. Yeah.
I wore a dress. I wore a dress and a wig and I was like, we had like a,
like a dating and.
This is the wild guy that I would, this is from the nineties.
I think I found it on YouTube. It still exists.
It's like very David Lynchian then it so it's just so weird to watch Z.
Oh, so he would that's him on the right and him on TV. Oh,
so he really playing this out.
This was some weird. Wow. This is he's doing Coke.
He's the tamp like again, I was a kid when I was seeing this stuff. Wow.
So like to me, it's not that.
Robert Smith and.
The cure man. Someone found him. I don't know.
I'm sure he is like on Facebook or he's probably doing this stuff still let's
find him. Well, he's gonna find out now. Oh Jesus Christ.
Wow. Yeah. So he got away with this. This is all on. Yeah.
But he wasn't even the only one was a clown called like angst though.
The clown that was like, I'm sure red band knows about this stuff.
Cuz he was a little bit older than me in the same area is probably why he,
he was probably watching the same. Where were you brought, brought up.
This is why it might make sense. Now. Where were you brought up in Columbus,
Ohio. Huh? Weird. There's I mean this,
and then looking back into some of the stuff that was happening there,
it kind of makes a little bit of sense. But if this isn't wasn't going on,
every aware that's sort of like strange. I never.
Saw in Boston, but I might have been out the loop might have,
might have existed. I just wasn't aware of it.
But I thought the regulations were across the board. If you were broadcasting.
I didn't think that public access was different. Was.
It? Cuz it's local maybe.
And then there's like free speech laws that were getting into, I I don't,
again, I was a kid, so I have no idea. I was just, Hmm. I was excited to see it.
<laugh> I.
I just, I haven't, it's not, it won't be available until spring, but um,
for the last couple years I've been working on a, a book,
you know like this is the thing I thought I'd never do.
I used to be annoyed by people who thought about their kids before I had kids,
but I have a book I just finished called uh, outdoor kids inside world.
And it's about, you know, kids in nature,
raising kids and yeah, man, if you'd asked me dude like 10 years ago,
I'd been like the way I would do something. Like, but it's just harrowing man.
It's like scary. What is scary having.
Kids. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Worried about them and just like.
Danger. Yeah. And like trying to guide their guide, their experience, you know?
And for me, I don't, yeah. I've, I've found that, um, that,
that ex you know, exposure to nature experiences in nature,
understanding nature is like winds up being an avenue of approach that I have
with them that works for both of us.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> is like a common language, you know? Yeah. But yeah, man,
it's, it's, it's, it's terrifying. And then the, the,
the feeling of hypo hypocrisy that you get of
things that meant a,
that when you were young things that meant a lot to you and felt very authentic
to you, like freedom,
freedom to consume what media you wanted freedom to talk to.
He wanted to talk to freedom to go where you wanted to go. Um,
that later you're in a position where you're a, um,
denying, denying someone,
something that you really wanted in an honest way when you were young. Yeah.
Um, I had a conversation with it's a push and pull man. Jonathan,
hate about that. You know, he talks about the,
the concept of free range kids. Mm-hmm <affirmative> about,
he lets his chill wander. It was Jonathan hate, right. Was right.
The codling of the American mind. Mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
he lets his kids wander around New York city.
Like he lets his kids walk home from New York city. And you know,
he was talking about one time his, uh,
his kid got a little lost and they were really, really scared. You know,
it was like they were trying to find him and it's like a tariff fine feeling.
But that ultimately the development that the child receives
from being able to navigate the world on their own is very valuable,
but there's a risk. And so you like have to weigh this risk versus reward.
And the opposite of that is people do he helicopter parent.
And we know how that turns, right?
That's not good when you overly coddle your kid and your, your,
your kid is not exposed to any sort of adversity or any sort of danger or any
sort of adventure or any sort of, uh, independence that it,
it could be stifling.
And then it takes a long time for the child to develop outside of that parental
environment. Once they become free, they're like different kinds of kids, right.
There's kids that grow up in bad neighborhoods with very little parental
guidance and they're 18.
And then there's kids who grow up completely coddled and completely protected
and insulated and they're 18.
And then they run into each other totally different life experiences. Yeah.
And I was the former, you know,
I was the kid that didn't have a lot of guidance when I was a kid and I was kind
of a lock key, a latchkey.
Kid. That's I'm glad you just used that word.
Yeah. It's common word. Right? Common phrase. Well, apparently it's not.
No, I grew up with that word. Yeah. Key.
I was commenting on how my wife and her,
her early years was a latchkey kid and she's like,
I haven't heard that word in a long time.
<laugh> like that used to be a word dude. Like latchkey.
Kid. Yeah. You got a key, you got a key and you,
you came home and no one was home, you know, when I was.
12 Years old. I'm great. Yeah. Just, I mean,
it wasn't like five days ago someone was pointing out to me that that word
doesn't get used anymore.
Yeah. Well kids don't, I mean, it's like kind of a different thing.
You really see 12 year old kids walking home with a key and opening up their
front door anymore. Yeah. I mean,
I think about my children and how young they are. And I,
I can't imagine them doing that, but I did that.
And I think that the independence that comes from being a kid who walks home
from school by yourself and opens your door by your herself and you know,
and then my parents didn't come home till, you know, whatever it was,
they worked till five and then they were home. I was out, I would go places,
no knew where the I was. There was no phones. There was no cell phones,
you know? Yeah. I could leave a, a little post-it note or something like that.
It it's, it's been interesting to watch, um, as a parent, the way that you,
that different parents find what dangerous things they're comfortable with. Mm.
Um, friends of mine, like my friend Kelly lives in New York. Right.
And she'll talk about, and we have similar mindsets,
um,
about ex exposing kids to risk and her kids will
take the subway. Right. Or whatever home. And to me, where I, where,
where I live and have not had kids that age in a city, like,
I can't picture what she's getting at. You know what I mean? I, I go like, wow,
that seems just kinda like crazy. Yeah. Like how old you, you responsible? Uh,
I'm trying to think how 14 and nine or 10 somewhere in there. Mm. Um,
and don't know they've been at it for a while, but either way,
like things that some people would regard things that people from the outside
would regard as like hard to picture mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know, you sort,
but at the same time,
I expose my kids to like danger that I have decided is like an okay
danger to court. I'll expose 'em to being, you know,
they can be around on grizzly bears.
They can be on escorted in areas that have Mo a lot of mountain lines and bears.
We take small boats out in the very big water. Um, we do all kinds of things,
but it it's like things that I've decided are, um, good risk.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.